# My Submission for the Apple WWDC Scholarship 2017
Tell us about the features and technologies you used in your Swift playground.

In the beginning I really struggled developing an playground for Playgrounds on iPad. Xcode was constantly crashing, something stuff would work on the Mac but not on the iPad and also the by now famous error message on the iPad “There was a problem encountered while running this playground. Check your code for mistakes.” weren’t really helping and also layouting. Well after some frustrating hours, I took a look at the source code of Brick Breaker by Apple and saw that you guys used a storyboard. After I got my storyboard working I made some good process. Checking other playgrounds by Apple I also decided to make a playgroundbook but with just one page to be able to use the PlaygroundLiveViewSafeAreaContainer protocol. So in the end my workflow was pretty good: I basically worked on an iOS App project using the code from playgrounds by apple and the online documentation as foundation, then copied all my files into the starter playgroundbook and deployed it via AirDrop onto my iPad.
The main idea about my playground was that you would feel like you are standing right next to me in my room holding my iPhone and working with me on my projects while playing with all the fancy lights and hopefully start the party.
Since Apple released the Home app in iOS 10, I got really into home automation and smart home. I really liked that they build it right into the OS. I knew I wanted to share my enthusiasm about HomeKit in this years application. I thought a really cool way would be to show you my setup I build with Arduino based boards. I implemented it as an state machine, I filmed every state and every transition and used the AVQueuePlayer to queue these videos depending on the inputs of the user similar to the home app itself. 
To show off my projects and tell you about what I am working on I used Live Photos. I really like them because they make stuff feel alive. I also really liked the idea to transform views in 3d space. So I also included the iPad on the table and transformed the Live Photo view to lay flat on the table. I also have a curved ultra wide screen and I wanted to curve the Live Photos on my monitor, sadly the meshTransform property of CALayer is private by Apple so I couldn’t use it and I didn’t find another way to manipulate the view like I wanted to. Also the iPad doesn’t have 3d touch yet, so i couldn't display the detail view via 3d touch and had to use the touchEnded event on the live photo to display an information button. 
All in all it felt like playgrounds aren't at the point where apps are and that even Apple is using a lot of workarounds in there playgrounds. It’s a cool way to test small features but I didn't like it as much for building a whole experience.
